
#2.4.1 simulating randomness
- random choice takes a sequence so you could simulate a coin like this
```py
random.choice([0,1])
```
- or a die like this:
```py
random.choice(range(1,7))
```
- but becareful if you simulated a die like this:
```py
random.choice([range(1,7)])
```
what you are asking for is a random item from the list that contains 1 item only (which is a range but still a range is one item and you will always get that back)
- to simulate having three dice, one 6 sided one 8 sided and one 10 sided and choosing one at random then throwing that one at random you could do:

```py
random.choice(random.choice([range(1,7),range(1,9),range(1,11)]))
```
- basically this works because in python everything is an object

#2.4.2 more random
- if we have 10 dice and we roll them all 100 times, we would expect to get 10 (10 ones) rarely and 60 (ten sixes) rarely but we will get many ways to get around 30. so a histogram might have a 'normal' looking distribution. (if we do it enough times)
- this is the central limit theorem - works with coins, die etc any random event done enough times basically. even if the individual event repeated would never have (couldnt have) a normal distribution)
## quaestions:

- What will random.choice(list((1,2,3,4))) do?
Sample from the list [1,2,3,4] . 

- What is the law of large numbers with respect to histograms?
We expect the histogram of a sample to better reflect the distribution as the sample size increases. 

- What is the Central Limit Theorem?
The distribution of the sum of many random variables is approximately normal. 

#2.4.3
- The reason for using NumPy to deal with random variables
is that first, it has a broad range of different kinds of random variables.
And second, it's also very fast.
- For exmaple: Generating numbers from the standard uniform distribution, (which is a the completely flat distribution between 0 and 1 such that any floating point number between these two endpoints is equally likely.)
To generate just one realization from this distribution
```py
np.random.random()
```
- standard Normal distribution has mean =0 and standard dev (variance)=1 ((NB STANDARD DEV IS SQRT OF VARIANCE AND SQRT 1 IS 1))
- to gen numbers from this distribution can use np.random.normal(0,1) (because there are other non-standard normal dists
- one realisation from standard normal:
```py
np.random.normal(0,1)
```
### summing in arrays
- take a 10 row 3 column array of integers 1-6 representing 3 dice being rolled together:

```
In [40]: x = np.random.randint(1,7,(10,3))

In [41]: x
Out[41]:
array([[5, 6, 6],
       [3, 4, 6],
       [4, 1, 4],
       [5, 3, 3],
       [4, 6, 1],
       [4, 2, 4],
       [4, 4, 6],
       [5, 3, 2],
       [2, 2, 1],
       [5, 2, 2]])


n [42]: np.sum(x)
Out[42]: 109

In [43]: np.sum(x, axis=0)
Out[43]: array([41, 33, 35])

In [44]: np.sum(x, axis=1)
Out[44]: array([17, 13,  9, 11, 11, 10, 14, 10,  5,  9])
```
 - as seen above we can use ```np.sum``` to either sum the whole array, ```axis=0``` to sum the rows and ```axis=1``` to sum the columns

#2.4.3 questions
- What does numpy.random.random((5,2,3)) do?
 Generate a 5 x 2 x 3 NumPy array with random uniform values. 
 - What does numpy.random.normal(1,2,3) do?
Generate 3 samples with mean 1 and standard deviation 2. 
- What does numpy.random.randint(1,5,(2,3)) do?
Generate a 2 x 3 array with random integers from 1-4

- What is the dimension of numpy.sum(numpy.random.randint(1,7,(100,10)), axis=0) ?
10
### note my forst guess was 1 and I dont really understand why it isnt one. checked in the discussion and it does appear that the question is wrong...


#2.4.4 Time
- can use the time module to compare to ways of doing code (time testing)

### the ten dice example is normal pythin
```
start = time.clock()
ys=[]
for rep in range(1000000):
    y=0
    for k in range(10):
        x=random.choice([1,2,3,4,5,6])
        y = y + x
    ys.append(y)
end = time.clock()
print(end-start)
```
### the 10 dice example using numpy

```py
start = time.clock()
X = np.random.randint(1,7,(1000000,10))
Y = np.sum(X, axis=1)
end = time.clock()
print(end-start)
```
#2.4.5 random walks
- You have some location at time t, and from that location you take a step in a random direction and that generates your location at time t plus 1.

```
x(t=0) = X0
x(t=1) =X(t=0) + deltaX at (time =1)
# simply:

x(t=1) = X0 + deltaX at (time=1)

# for x2:
x(t=2)  = x(t=1) + deltaX at (t=2)
        = X0 + deltaX(t=1) + deltaX(t=2)

# generalises to

x(t=n) = X0 + deltaX(t=1)+... + deltaX(t=n)
```

- random walker starting at origin, takinh 100 steps with each step sampled from SND (standard normal dist) (also assuming that displacement in x axis and y axis are independent

First we generate the random displacements, np.random.normal, mean 0, standard deviation 1. And the size of the array is two by five. This gives us our delta x, our random placements. On the following line we'd like to define x, which is the position of the random walker at any given time. So we apply the cumulative sum here, applied to delta x, and axis being set to 1. Finally, we want to plot this using plt plot. First we'll plot the row 0 of our X array and then we plot row 1 of the array. Let's try run

### questions
- How are the displacements, the individual steps, in the random walk related to one another?

Any two consecutive displacements are independent of one another.

- What does np.concatenate do?
Takes an iterable of np.arrays as arguments, and binds them along the axis argument. 


# Note of time on hw for feedback (week 2)
1) sun 7 oct 22h00 til 
2) finished in one go at 01:30 on monday
so 3.5 hrs
(and I had a few braks)
